firstIndex method completed (#2466)
Codecademy/docs: content/swift/concepts/arrays/terms/firstindexof/firstIndexOf.md

---

> Title: '.firstIndexOf()'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: '.firstIndex()'
```

Reviewer: please update the folder and filename to match

Description: 'Returns the index of the first element in an array that satisfies the given condition.'
Subjects:

>   - 'Swift'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'iOS'
```

  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Methods'

>   - 'Searching'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'Search'
```

CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

> The **`.firstIndexOf()`** method in Swift returns the index of the first element in an array that fulfills a specified condition. If no element satisfies the condition, it returns `nil`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.firstIndex()`** method in Swift returns the index of the first element in an array that fulfills a specified condition. If no element satisfies the condition, it returns `nil`.
```

> The **`.firstIndexOf()`** method in Swift returns the index of the first element in an array that fulfills a specified condition. If no element satisfies the condition, it returns **`nil`**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`.firstIndexOf()`** method in Swift returns the index of the first element in an array that fulfills a specified condition. If no element satisfies the condition, it returns `nil`.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo

> arrayName.firstIndexOf { condition }

Reviewer: update the syntax to include `of:` and `where:`

```

> The **`.firstIndexOf()`** method takes a single parameter, which is a closure representing the condition that an element must satisfy. The closure returns a boolean value indicating whether a particular element meets the condition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `.firstIndexOf()` method takes a single parameter, which is a closure representing the condition that an element must satisfy. The closure returns a boolean value indicating whether a particular element meets the condition.
```

## Example

Consider an array of integers representing the temperatures in Celsius:

```swift
let temperatures = [23, 18, 25, 20, 22, 21]
```

> We can use the **`.firstIndexOf()`** method to find the index of the first temperature that exceeds a certain threshold, such as 25 degrees:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can use the `.firstIndexOf()` method to find the index of the first temperature that exceeds a certain threshold, such as 25 degrees:
```

```swift
let threshold = 25

> if let index = temperatures.firstIndexOf({ $0 > threshold }) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if let index = temperatures.firstIndexOf(where: { $0 > threshold }) {
```

    print("The first temperature exceeding \(threshold) degrees is at index \(index).")
} else {
    print("No temperature exceeds \(threshold) degrees.")
}
```

> In this example, the closure **`{ $0 > threshold }`** is used as the condition. It checks whether each temperature in the array is greater than the threshold. If a temperature exceeding the threshold is found, the index of that temperature is printed. Otherwise, a message indicating that no temperature exceeds the threshold is printed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, the closure `{ $0 > threshold }` is used as the condition. It checks whether each temperature in the array is greater than the threshold. If a temperature exceeding the threshold is found, the index of that temperature is printed. Otherwise, a message indicating that no temperature exceeds the threshold is printed.
```

The output will be:

> ```csharp

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```shell
````

> The first temperature exceeding 25 degrees is at index 2 .

Reviewer: This isn't the correct output, there are no values that exceed 25

```

In this case, the temperature 25 is the first element in the array that satisfies the condition, and its index is 2.

> Note that the .firstIndexOf() method returns an optional value, so we use optional binding (if let) to safely unwrap the result.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `.firstIndexOf()` method returns an optional value, so optional binding (if let) is used to safely unwrap the result.
```
